README     Last revised 06/09/2020

H2OI95, A Code for Evaluating the IAPWS-95 Equation-of-State Model for Water
Version 1.1, Build 118
Written by Thomas J. Wolery (wolery1@llnl.gov)
Unclassified/Open Source Distribution
LLNL-CODE-811146
CP Numbber: CP02321

Copyright (c) 2018, 2020, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
All rights reserved.

SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause

For more information on license, see the LICENSE file (LICENSE.txt or LICENSE.md).
See also the NOTICE file (NOTICE.txt or NOTICE.md).

H2OI95 is distributed under the terms of the BSD-3-Clause license. All new
contributions must be made under this license.

This is version 1.1 of the software, following version 1.0. Version 1.1
fixes a coding error affecting some results close to the critical point of water
(647.096K and 22.064 MPa). It also includes calculation of a number of addtional
water properties, including the more basic Debye-Huckel parameters often used
in thermodynamic modeling of aqueous solutions. For a fuller description of the
changes, see the associated report (Wolery, 2020, LLNL-TR-805304), which is
included in the software package as a PDF. 

This software evaluates the IAPWS-95 equation-of-state model (Wagner
and Pruss, 2002) as described (and partially modified) by IAPWS (2016).
The software is provided as a Windows PC executable, along with files to
assist running it in a command window environment). The software is run by
providing a text-based input file, of which numerous examples are included in
the test case library included in the software package.. Archived output files
are also included to assist in checking installation and any porting.
A fuller description is given in the associated report (Wolery, 2020).
References cited above are included in this report.

As written, H2OI95 is a "research" code designed to support numerical
studies of requisite iterative calculations. It has been extensively
tested in this regard. See the associated report (Wolery, 2020) for details.
It is fast enough for ordinary stand-alone calculations, including the
generation of steam tables (primarily through the mtab.csv, ctab.csv, and
xtab.csv output files). The code in H2OI95 could be modified to support
direct incorporation into other software, such as SUPCRT92 (Johnson et al.,
1992) or a reactive-transport code.

There is no installation program. The software can be downloaded from
GitHub at https://github.com/LLNL/H2OI95. It may also be available from
other repositories. Download the file H2OI95_v1.1_b118.zip. This contains
the software (everything needed: Windows exectuable, Fortran source, test
case package, the associated report, other documentation, and items to
assist in running the software on a Windows system). Some items
including the associated report may also be separately downloaded from
GitHub or another repository.

Unzip the zip file. This is best done in the Downloads folder or another
folder that is not C:\. Windows 10 will not allow an unzip to C:\ as
a security measure. It is not recommended to try to change the requisite
permissions for this folder. Once the file is unzipped elsewhere, a folder
called H2OI95_v.1.1_b118 should appear. In it, there should be a folder
called H2OI95_v.1.1. That folder that should be moved to C:\ (or another
location if the user desires, but some extra work will be required as
described below).

To install the software on a Windows PC, copy the H2OI95_v1.1 folder to the
C:\ folder. Then copy the contained H2OI95_v1.1 shortcut (a special cmd
shortcut) to the desktop. If the H2OI95_v1.1 folder is copied elsewhere,
associated changes will be necessary to the Properties of the H2OI95_v1.1
shortcut and the H2OI95cfg.bat batch file used to configure the special
command line window environment. These will generally involve changing
references to "C:\" to something consistent with where you have put the
H2OI95_v.1.1 folder. Similar changes will also be necessary in the tch.bat
file if it is desired to use it to run the complete test case package.

If installing to a non-Windows system (such as Linux), you have the
Fortran source and will need to compile it yourself. No instructions are
provided here on how to do that. Don't contact us asking for instructions.
You should know your system if you want to run this software on a
non-Windows system.

To run the software, open the special command line window. An input file
(named "input") is needed to specify the problem to be run. Enter the
command "H2OI95" (caps are not necessary) to make a run. For more detailed
instructions on using the software, please consult the associated
report. Examples are given and discussed.   

The test case library (Test_pkg) is in the Testing folder.

The Windows PC executable is in the Bin folder.

The Fortran source code is in the Src folder. H2OI95 is written in
"simple" Fortran, uses explicit variable typing, and passes information
between routines using only calling sequences (no common blocks).

The Testing folder contains tch.bat, a Windows batch file to run all
of the test cases. It works with tchs.bat and tfcm1.bat, two other batch
files, to do this. Batch file tfcm1.bat requires a "sed" command, which
may not be included with Windows. It may be necessary to download and
install a "sed" from the internet. An internet search will provide
possibilities. The particular sed usage in tfmc1.bat is fairly primitive
and should be found in just about any sed that the user may encounter.

The Testing folder also contains the Test_pkg folder, which contains each
test problem in its own folder (e.g., "MCclx"). Each test case folder
contains an archival input file (in case the user should make changes to
the actual input file) and archival copies of the corresponding output
files (output, out, mtab.csv, and ctab.csv). The batch file tch.bat will
compare output files generated by running the code with the matching
archival copies. The file "out" here actually captures what would otherwise
be screen output written by H2OI95.

A Work folder is included for the user's convenience in running the
software on the user's own problems. The user may choose to run the
software in another folder of the user's choosing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
